1. Stern's Introductory Plant Biology
James Bidlack, Shelley Jansky, Kingsley Stern(You?)|2017|
4.64
This introductory text assumes little prior scientific knowledge on the part of the student. It includes sufficient information for some shorter introductory botany courses open to both majors and nonmajors, and is arranged so that certain sections can be omitted without disrupting the overall continuity of the course. Stern emphasizes current interests while presenting basic botanical principles. This latest edition incorporates measurable learning outcomes and updated readings

2. Raven Biology of Plants
Ray F. Evert, Susan E. Eichhorn(You?)|2012|
4.61
Long acclaimed as the definitive introductory botany text, Raven Biology of Plants, Eighth Edition by Ray Evert, Susan Eichhorn, stands as the most significant revision in the book’s history. Every topic was updated with information obtained from the most recent primary literature, making the book valuable for both students and professionals.

3. Laboratory Manual for Stern's Introductory Plant Biology
James Bidlack, Shelley Jansky, Kingsley R Stern(You?)|2017|
4.6
This laboratory manual assumes no previous knowledge of the biological sciences on the part of the student. It is designed for use in a one-semester or one-quarter introductory course in plant biology and shorter introductory botany courses open to both nonmajors and majors.Both the principles of biology and the scientific method are introduced, using plants as illustrations. The exercises demonstrate the underlying unity of all living organisms at the cellular level.The manual is designed so that students can work independently

4. Exploring Biology in the Laboratory
Murray P. Pendarvis, John L. Crawley(You?)|2018|
4.57
This full-color, comprehensive, affordable introductory biology manual is appropriate for both majors and nonmajors laboratory courses. All general biology topics are covered extensively, and the manual is designed to be used with a minimum of outside reference material. The activities emphasize the unity of all living things and the evolutionary forces that have resulted in, and continue to act on, the diversity that we see around us today. Features: An extensive full-color art and photography program includes many specimen and dissection images, labeled diagrams, cladograms, and helpful life-cycle illustrations

5. A Beginner's Guide to Targeted Cancer Treatments
Vickers(You?)|2018|
4.57
Highly Commended in the category of Oncology at the British Medical Association Awards 2019 The accessible guide to the principles behind new, more targeted drug treatments for cancer Written for anyone who encounters cancer patients, cancer data or cancer terminology, but have no more than a passing knowledge of cell biology. A Beginner's Guide to Targeted Cancer Treatments provides an understanding of how cancer works and the many new treatments available.

6. Fundamentals of Systems Biology
From Synthetic Circuits to Whole-cell Models
Markus W. Covert(You?)|2017|
4.56
For decades biology has focused on decoding cellular processes one gene at a time, but many of the most pressing biological questions, as well as diseases such as cancer and heart disease, are related to complex systems involving the interaction of hundreds, or even thousands, of gene products and other factors. How do we begin to understand this complexity? Fundamentals of Systems Biology: From Synthetic Circuits to Whole-cell Models introduces students to methods they can use to tackle complex systems head-on, carefully walking them through studies that comprise the foundation and frontier of systems biology.

7. Book Cover of Deborah T. Goldberg  M.S., David Maxwell  M.S. - Ultimate AP Biology: Everything you need to get a 5
Ultimate AP Biology
Everything you need to get a 5
Deborah T. Goldberg M.S., David Maxwell M.S.(You?)|2018|
4.54
Find everything you need to score a 5 on your AP Biology exam—and save over 20% OFF items when purchased separately! This Ultimate study pack features three must-have tools to help you prepare and succeed on exam day. It includes: Barron's AP BIOLOGY This fully updated, must-have manual includes 3 full-length tests (two in the book and one online), all questions thoroughly answered and explained, an extensive review covering all AP test topics, hundreds of additional multiple-choice and free-response practice questions with answer explanations, test-taking tactics and strategies. 560 pp.

8. Book Cover of Samantha Fowler, Rebecca Roush, James Wise - Concepts of Biology
Concepts of Biology
Samantha Fowler, Rebecca Roush, James Wise(You?)|2013|
4.54
Concepts of Biology is designed for the introductory biology course for nonmajors taught at most two- and four-year colleges. The scope, sequence, and level of the program are designed to match typical course syllabi in the market. Concepts of Biology includes interesting applications, features a rich art program, and conveys the major themes of biology.

9. Book Cover of Rita Fior, Rita Zilhão - Molecular and Cell Biology of Cancer: When Cells Break the Rules and Hijack Their Own Planet (Learning Materials in Biosciences)
Molecular and Cell Biology of Cancer
When Cells Break the Rules and Hijack Their Own Planet
Rita Fior, Rita Zilhão(You?)|2019|
4.54
This textbook takes you on a journey to the basic concepts of cancer biology. It combines developmental, evolutionary and cell biology perspectives, to then wrap-up with an integrated clinical approach.The book starts with an introductory chapter, looking at cancer in a nut shell. The subsequent chapters are detailed and the idea of cancer as a mass of somatic cells undergoing a micro-evolutionary Darwinian process is explored. Further, the main Hanahan and Weinberg “Hallmarks of Cancer” are revisited.  In most chapters, the fundamental experiments that led to key concepts, connecting basic biology and biomedicine are highlighted.

10. Intermediate Physics for Medicine and Biology
Russell K. Hobbie, Bradley J. Roth(You?)|2015|
4.51
This classic text has been used in over 20 countries by advanced undergraduate and beginning graduate students in biophysics, physiology, medical physics, neuroscience, and biomedical engineering. It bridges the gap between an introductory physics course and the application of physics to the life and biomedical sciences. 
Extensively revised and updated, the fifth edition incorporates new developments at the interface between physics and biomedicine.