1. What Is Mathematics?,
What Is Mathematics? is a mathematics book written by Richard Courant and Herbert Robbins, published in England by Oxford University Press. It is an introduction to mathematics, intended both for the mathematics student and for the general public,
Originally published: 1941

2. Gödel, Escher, Bach: an Eternal Golden Braid
Gödel, Escher, Bach: an Eternal Golden Braid, also known as GEB, is a 1979 book by Douglas Hofstadter. By exploring common themes in the lives and works of logician Kurt Gödel, artist M. C. Escher, and composer Johann Sebastian Bach, the book expounds concepts fundamental to mathematics, symmetry, and intelligence.
Originally published: 1979

3. Zero: The Biography of a Dangerous Idea
Zero: The Biography of a Dangerous Idea is a non-fiction book by American author and journalist Charles Seife. The book was initially released on February 7, 2000 by Viking
Originally published: February 7, 2000

4. Journey through Genius
Like masterpieces of art, music, and literature, great mathematical theorems are creative milestones, works of genius destined to last forever. Now William Dunham gives them the attention they deserve.
Originally published: March 30, 1990

5. Humble Pi: A Comedy of Maths Errors
#1 INTERNATIONAL BESTSELLER   AN ADAM SAVAGE BOOK CLUB PICKThe book-length answer to anyone who ever put their hand up in math class and asked, “When am I ever going to use this in the real world?
Originally published: March 7, 2019

6. In Pursuit of the Unknown: 17 Equations That Changed the World
From Newton's Law of Gravity to the Black-Scholes model used by bankers to predict the markets, equations, are everywhere - and they are fundamental to everyday life. Seventeen Equations that Changed the World examines seventeen groundbreaking equations that have altered the course of human history.
Originally published: February 2, 2012

7. A History of Pi
A History of Pi is a 1970 non-fiction book by Petr Beckmann that presents a layman's introduction to the concept of the mathematical constant pi.
Originally published: 1970

8. The Princeton Companion to Mathematics
The Princeton Companion to Mathematics is a book, edited by Timothy Gowers with associate editors June Barrow-Green and Imre Leader, and published in 2008 by Princeton University Press. It provides an extensive overview of mathematics, and is noted for the high caliber of the contributors.
Originally published: September 8, 2008

9. Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica
Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica by Isaac Newton, often referred to as simply the Principia, is a work in three books written in Latin, first published 5 July 1687
Originally published: July 5, 1687

10. Four Colors Suffice: How the Map Problem was Solved
A puzzlers delight for over a century, the four-colour problem was one of the most famous conundrums in mathematics, if not the most famous, and many thousands of puzzlers - amateur problem-solvers and professional mathematicians alike - have struggled to answer it
Originally published: 2002